Probabilistic Policy Violation Detection with IPFWD
  
  IPFWD is a system load monitoring daemon for FreeBSD that updates an early
  rule in IPFW that has a chance to accept any packet. This provides a graceful
  trade off between performance and security policy enforcement. The
  probability is dependent on the current system load. IFPWD also extends IPFW
  logs to include information about the probability of undetected rule
  violations caused by the accept any packet rule.

Abstract

  By allowing a probabilistic chance for allowing any packet through the
  firewall, IPFWD can provide a graceful transition between performance and
  security that dynamically follows current system load. 

  Firewall performance can be improved by reducing the number of rules applied
  to each packet. Supposing a white list policy, the firewall has to apply
  every rule to each packet before it's denied. IPFWD is a daemon that monitors
  system load and updates a new first rule in IPFW that allows a percentage
  chance to allow any packet through.  Instead of applying each rule to every
  denied packet, we have a chance to immediately accept any packet. Testing
  shows this improves performance. 

  IPFWD has the most potential for usefulness in high bandwidth environments,
  such as data centers, where it's not feasible to apply an extensive rule set
  to each packet but it is important to be notified of security policy
  violations. The balance between information and performance is self tuning
  based on current system load.

  Under normal load, IPFW will still fully enforce the security policy. But
  under heavy load, IPFWD will back IPFW off so performance isn't bottlenecked
  at the firewall.

IPFWD

  This is a shift in mindset from typical firewalls. Instead of enforcing every
  part of a security policy all of the time, IPFWD enforces the policy some of
  the time and extrapolates the violations it does encounter. This provides
  insight into the violations that weren't detected by IPFW. For this cost, you
  gain increased firewall performance and network throughput in resource bound
  systems. It's acceptable to allow a percentage of policy violations given
  that network traffic patterns are typically repeated.

  For example, under heavy load, IPFWD may allow 40% of packets through without
  applying the security policy. Supposing a port scan was initiated during this
  time, your system would still reject and report approximately 60% of the port
  scan. Since the percentage chance will fluctuate over time, IPFWD provides
  additional information in the IPFW logs to show the chance additional
  undetected violations occurred for detected violation.

  This also allows administrators to retain extensive rule sets that fully
  implement their security policy. Instead of having to simplifying rule sets
  to increase performance, IPFWD balances policy enforcement and performance
  itself.
